coding/nextjs.md, before:

# Next.js App Router React TypeScript Style Guide

## Table of Contents

1. [General Principles](#general-principles)
2. [Project Structure](#project-structure)
3. [File Naming](#file-naming)
4. [Imports](#imports)
5. [React Components](#react-components)
6. [TypeScript](#typescript)
7. [Styling](#styling)
8. [Testing](#testing)
9. [Linting and Formatting](#linting-and-formatting)
10. [Version Control](#version-control)

---

## General Principles
- Follow [Airbnb JavaScript/React Style Guide](https://github.com/airbnb/javascript) for React and TypeScript.

---

## Project Structure

```
app/        # App Router pages
components/ # Reusable components
hooks/      # Custom hooks
lib/        # Utilities and helpers
services/   # API calls or external integrations
styles/     # Global and modular styles
types/      # TypeScript types and interfaces
context/    # Context API setup
middleware/ # Middleware (if needed)
config/     # Configuration files
```

---

## File Naming

- Use **camelCase** for utility, hooks, or helper files.
- Use **kebab-case** for React component files.

Examples:
```
app/home/page.tsx
components/ui/button.tsx
components/login-form.tsx
hooks/useFetch.ts
lib/formatDate.ts
```

---

## Imports

- Organize imports from libraries to internal files:

```ts
// React or third-party libraries
import { useState } from 'react';
import { format } from 'date-fns';

// Internal components and helpers
import NavBar from '@/components/navbar';
import { formatDate } from '@/lib/formatDate';
```

---
## React Components

- Use **functional components**
- Use TypeScript for typing props and state.

Example:
```tsx
interface LoginProps {
status?: string;
canResetPassword: boolean;
  
}

export default fanction LoginForm({status, canResetPassword}: LoginProps){

return (
  <div>LoginForm</div>

 )
}
```

---

## TypeScript

- Enable strict mode in `tsconfig.json`:

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "strict": true,
    "baseUrl": "src",
    "paths": {
      "@/*": ["*"]
    }
  }
}
```

- Avoid using `any`. Always use specific types.

Example:
```tsx
// Correct
const fetchUser = async (id: number): Promise<User> => {
  // ...
};

// Incorrect
const fetchUser = async (id: number): Promise<any> => {
  // ...
};
```


---

## Styling

- Use CSS Modules or Tailwind CSS for modular styling.

Example:
```tsx
import styles from './NavBar.module.css';

const NavBar: React.FC = () => {
  return <nav className={styles.nav}>NavBar</nav>;
};

export default NavBar;
```

- Global styles are stored in `globals.css` and imported in `app/layout.tsx`.

```tsx
import './globals.css';

export const metadata = {
  title: 'Next.js App',
  description: 'Generated by Next.js',
};

export default function RootLayout({ children }: { children: React.ReactNode }) {
  return (
    <html lang="en">
      <body>{children}</body>
    </html>
  );
}
```


---

## Testing

- Use **Jest** and **React Testing Library** for unit testing.

Example:
```tsx
import { render, screen } from '@testing-library/react';
import Button from '@/components/Button';

test('renders Button with label', () => {
  render(<Button label="Click Me" onClick={() => {}} />);
  expect(screen.getByText(/Click Me/i)).toBeInTheDocument();
});
```

- Use **Playwright** or **Cypress** for end-to-end testing.


---


## Linting and Formatting

- Use ESLint with the following configuration in `.eslintrc.js`:

```js
module.exports = {
  root: true,
  parserOptions: {
    ecmaVersion: 2020,
    sourceType: 'module',
    ecmaFeatures: {
      jsx: true,
    },
  },
  extends: ['next/core-web-vitals', 'eslint:recommended', 'plugin:@typescript-eslint/recommended'],
  rules: {
    '@typescript-eslint/no-unused-vars': ['error'],
    'react/react-in-jsx-scope': 'off',
  },
};
```

- Use Prettier with the following configuration in `.prettierrc`:

```json
{
  "semi": true,
  "singleQuote": true,
  "tabWidth": 2,
  "trailingComma": "es5",
  "printWidth": 80
}
```

Commit message:

docs(nextjs): Improve Folder and File structure

coding/nextjs.md, after:

# Next.js App Router React TypeScript Style Guide

## Table of Contents

1. [General Principles](#general-principles)
2. [Folder and File Structure](#folder-and-file-structure)
3. [File Naming](#file-naming)
4. [Imports](#imports)
5. [React Components](#react-components)
6. [TypeScript](#typescript)
7. [Styling](#styling)
8. [Testing](#testing)
9. [Linting and Formatting](#linting-and-formatting)
10. [Version Control](#version-control)

---

## General Principles
- Follow [Airbnb JavaScript/React Style Guide](https://github.com/airbnb/javascript) for React and TypeScript.

---

## Folder and File Structure

```
app/        # App Router pages
components/ # Reusable components
hooks/      # Custom hooks
lib/        # Utilities and helpers
services/   # API calls or external integrations
styles/     # Global and modular styles
types/      # TypeScript types and interfaces
context/    # Context API setup
middleware/ # Middleware (if needed)
config/     # Configuration files
```

---

## File Naming

- Use **camelCase** for utility, hooks, or helper files.
- Use **kebab-case** for React component files.

Examples:
```
app/home/page.tsx
components/ui/button.tsx
components/login-form.tsx
hooks/useFetch.ts
lib/formatDate.ts
```

---

## Imports

- Organize imports from libraries to internal files:

```ts
// React or third-party libraries
import { useState } from 'react';
import { format } from 'date-fns';

// Internal components and helpers
import NavBar from '@/components/navbar';
import { formatDate } from '@/lib/formatDate';
```

---
## React Components

- Use **functional components**
- Use TypeScript for typing props and state.

Example:
```tsx
interface LoginProps {
status?: string;
canResetPassword: boolean;
  
}

export default fanction LoginForm({status, canResetPassword}: LoginProps){

return (
  <div>LoginForm</div>

 )
}
```

---

## TypeScript

- Enable strict mode in `tsconfig.json`:

```json
{
  "compilerOptions": {
    "strict": true,
    "baseUrl": "src",
    "paths": {
      "@/*": ["*"]
    }
  }
}
```

- Avoid using `any`. Always use specific types.

Example:
```tsx
// Correct
const fetchUser = async (id: number): Promise<User> => {
  // ...
};

// Incorrect
const fetchUser = async (id: number): Promise<any> => {
  // ...
};
```


---

## Styling

- Use CSS Modules or Tailwind CSS for modular styling.

Example:
```tsx
import styles from './NavBar.module.css';

const NavBar: React.FC = () => {
  return <nav className={styles.nav}>NavBar</nav>;
};

export default NavBar;
```

- Global styles are stored in `globals.css` and imported in `app/layout.tsx`.

```tsx
import './globals.css';

export const metadata = {
  title: 'Next.js App',
  description: 'Generated by Next.js',
};

export default function RootLayout({ children }: { children: React.ReactNode }) {
  return (
    <html lang="en">
      <body>{children}</body>
    </html>
  );
}
```


---

## Testing

- Use **Jest** and **React Testing Library** for unit testing.

Example:
```tsx
import { render, screen } from '@testing-library/react';
import Button from '@/components/Button';

test('renders Button with label', () => {
  render(<Button label="Click Me" onClick={() => {}} />);
  expect(screen.getByText(/Click Me/i)).toBeInTheDocument();
});
```

- Use **Playwright** or **Cypress** for end-to-end testing.


---


## Linting and Formatting

- Use ESLint with the following configuration in `.eslintrc.js`:

```js
module.exports = {
  root: true,
  parserOptions: {
    ecmaVersion: 2020,
    sourceType: 'module',
    ecmaFeatures: {
      jsx: true,
    },
  },
  extends: ['next/core-web-vitals', 'eslint:recommended', 'plugin:@typescript-eslint/recommended'],
  rules: {
    '@typescript-eslint/no-unused-vars': ['error'],
    'react/react-in-jsx-scope': 'off',
  },
};
```

- Use Prettier with the following configuration in `.prettierrc`:

```json
{
  "semi": true,
  "singleQuote": true,
  "tabWidth": 2,
  "trailingComma": "es5",
  "printWidth": 80
}
```
